{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Golemancers\
A golemancer is one who studies and trains in the art of golemancy, that is, the crafting, design and utilizing of golems. Golemancers achieve this by manifesting spirit through a pure substance, such as a crystal or gem, as well as runic inscription to give it direction and form. It is a study of the coming together of science and the ethereal.\
To start, all elements and materials must be present and properly aligned. Golems can be made from a variety of suitable materials, ranging from wood or iron or even elemental substances such as molten rock or ice. Although there are several distinctions between runic, mechanical and elemental golems, their basic concept of construction is the same. Importantly, an inscription, traditionally on parchment paper, detailing the commands given to the golem must be placed within the construct. This command scroll is commonly known as a covenant. Once this everything is in place, the core spirit crystal, which must be attuned prior, is then to be activated. A golem only becomes animated once its frame is animated by said spirit. Once active, a golem will function within the limits set by its construct and covenant until its core or covenant is damaged. Golems are linked to their creators in mysterious ways, and this unique bond is still the subject of study for many. Building a golem requires discipline and wisdom and accuracy.\
Golems by nature are guardians, as their most basic function is to serve and protect their creators. History has recorded how golems have served as guardians in many ways. Some have served as protectors for the elite, royal and noble, while others have been created to carry out menial chores or hard larbour in homes or factories. Because of their very nature, golems are incapable of insensate war, but there have been dark periods in human history in which golems have been twisted beyond their purpose by their creators to wage wars against golem and man alike. A golems inability to harm a human life is embedded in the very roots of the tradition of golemancy. The consequences of battle extended beyond golems and destroyed many human lives. It is certain that for golems to engage in human bloodshed is a warping of their nature, and naturally this act has been outlawed and forbidden. However there are natural but extremely rare instances where a golem is or becomes misaligned with its creator/ creators, often resulting in damage to both parties, and even death in some cases.\
In general, a golem\'92s power is in some accordance with its creators strength, and when its master dies the golem tends to perish soon afterward- as the spirit of the covenant that bound it together fades and decays. Yet sometimes golems have long outlived their creators, even indefinitely in rare cases, and it is believed that not all of the golems used in past wars have been recovered and destroyed. Some golems are very difficult to summon and near impossible to control, and very few times have such tasks been undertaking, the annals of such records ending in failure and death. Golems have the ability to learn, within the constrains of its convanant. Golems can not speak nor write.\
It should be noted that not all golems are man made. There are historical accounts of spontaneous golem creation, one fabled instance in which lightning struck a mound of mud and brought a primitive golem to life when the world was one continent, with its covenant inscribed on stone tablets. In truth, man himself could be considered a golem. Legend has it that huge and powerful golems existed before man, some said to be great protectors and some with no regard for human life, and those ancient beings still reside in this world, powerful and hidden and probably dormant, yet truth to these claims have yet to be seen.\
}